# FoundationPress Child Theme

A child theme for the FoundationPress WordPress starter theme

https://github.com/olefredrik/FoundationPress

This child theme uses its own Foundation installation.  All javascript, sass
files and bower packages are self contained and don't need to be referenced from
the parent theme. It's essentially a mirror of the FoundationPress structure. 

**Okay, so you'll need to have the following items installed before continuing.**

  * [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
  * [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/): Run `[sudo] npm install -g grunt-cli`
  * [Bower](http://bower.io): Run `[sudo] npm install -g bower`

## Quickstart

### 1. Clone the repository and install with npm

```bash
cd my-wordpress-folder/wp-content/themes/
git clone https://github.com/olefredrik/FoundationPress.git foundationpress/
git clone https://github.com:davenaylor/FoundationPress-Child-Theme your-theme-name/
cd your-theme-name
Edit style.css to insert your own details/theme name
npm install
```
It's important the parent foundationpress theme directory is all lowercase:
**foundationpress**

You don't need the bower/node installation in the parent theme since we've installed
all the required components in the child.

### 2. While you're working on your project, run:

``bash
$ npm run watch
``

If you want to take advantage of browser-sync (automatic browser refresh when a
file is saved), simply open your Gulpfile.js and put your local dev-server
address (e.g localhost) in this field ``var URL = '';`` , save the Gulpfile and
run
``bash
$ npm run watch
``

### 3. For building all the assets, run:

``bash
$ npm run build
``

Build all assets minified and without sourcemaps:
``bash
$ npm run production`

### Styles

 * `style.css`: Do not worry about this file. (For some reason) it's required by WordPress. All styling are handled in the Sass files described below

 * `assets/scss/foundation.scss`: Make imports for all your styles here
 * `assets/scss/global/*.scss`: Global settings
 * `assets/scss/components/*.scss`: Buttons etc.
 * `assets/scss/modules/*.scss`: Topbar, footer etc.
 * `assets/scss/templates/*.scss`: Page template spesific styling

Please note that you **must** run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the styles to be copied and concatinated. See the [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/FoundationPress/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### Scripts

* `assets/javascript/custom`: This is the folder where you put all your custom scripts. Every .js file you put in this directory will be minified and concatinated one single .js file. (This is good for site speed and performance)

Please note that you must run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the scripts to be copied and concatinated. See [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/FoundationPress/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### The main styles and scripts generated by the build

Version control on these files are turned off because they are automatically generated as part of the build process.

* `assets/stylesheets/foundation.css`: All Sass files are minified and compiled to this file
* `assets/stylesheets/foundation.css.map`: CSS source maps

* `assets/javascript/vendor`: Vendor scripts are copied from `assets/components/` to this directory. We use this path for enqueing the vendor scripts in WordPress.


